Good morning everybody. Hello. Hey, I'm Alan. I'm brain. That's AV testing time again. What number are we rent? 37?
Happy 37 we should have met. Yeah, I wish it was a happy 37. You're not happy. I am happy
It's just happy 46. Oh
Okay, you're younger than I am. So, you know what else I'm happy about what are you happy about?
I'm happy that the three still listen and the three are on Twitter and while we were talking here
I saw that Percy just Percy Percy tweeted us. Hey Percy. How's it going?
Yep, they didn't have it. I wonder if he listening in the car if he actually answered says hey, how's it going?
So Percy he had a question not a not a mailbag question just a hey guys question
All right, then he said any chance we will see a one of the three slack chat room
I can create one but want to see if you two are okay with it. Oh any chance. So it's a data science question
Oh
Well, let's let's draw some diagrams on the board
This
The universe of
Possibilities here might take up the whole podcast and since it's a podcast on a video cast. Maybe we should address it a different way
Anyway, what's this question? I just read you his question. Yeah, I was busily trying to be funny
No
Any chance that we'll have you a
Slack chat room. Well, it says but he says I can create one I being Percy
But which means there's a good chance there can be a slack chat room a very good chance. Yes pending his skills
He doesn't say I will create one or I am
This is a can I'm gonna guess that's a high probability
It seems like it it also seems like unlike me. It seems like he has high confidence in his ability to
Create one whereas to my knowledge
I have never either explicitly or accidentally gone to the slack website. So I don't I use slack
So I'm gonna reply. Okay, perzy fine with us as long as we don't have to commit to anything
Hashtag live on a B testing. There you go
Okay, if I do how to send the tweet, there we go. The tweet is out to the world
we have our typical agenda on the whiteboard this time in supplied entirely by Brent and
Bum bum bum and if it's possible even less prep than
Normal, so Brent has has all kinds of ideas and primped at a notepad
Primped prep. It's like primping and prepping at the same time. Brett has primped looks great today
has a little bit of the mad scientist here going on, but he also has a notepad full of stuff and
Take it away Brent. Yes, so
Today I would say the the theme for the podcast is what yes all about one of our
Listeners one of the three
Patrick prill also on Twitter as test Pappy. All right. Are we he's a nice guy. You're not gonna make fun of him
Are you we might I mean this
Sorry, I
Asked you for the chance on that one. No
Shut up with your math
So very recently
Feels like it was about a month ago
I have no concept of the passing of time. But yeah, it sounds great. Oh
Pratik did a presentation at
Did you call him Patrick? I might have okay. He's just already starting making fun of him
It's it's combining his first and last names together. All right, whatever. Yeah Patrick did a presentation
That's posted up on the mint. So there's a test ministry of testing the dojo of yeah, just bash
Yeah, what's the name of the website a ministry of testing? Yes that one
And we get calm we got we were made aware of it from another listener Vernon who?
Pointed out that Patrick did a shout out. So thanks for the shout out Patrick
So I watched the whole presentation and I think I think you would I know I know Alan hasn't watched it yet
Sorry Patrick, it's it's on my list though. But I think the presentation was was a very interesting theme and it was
essentially on the theme of
Testers using
Ignorance as a tool that ignorance is actually critical in the knowledge working arena
The it's just similar to ignorance in the way Philip armor talks about ignorance as a it is
knowledge acquisition for actually there was so there was there was
it's funny that you brought that up because
so
He presented the
W pyramid that we've talked about on the the podcast and that's actually where he shouted out
We talked about that we did. All right. I'll trust you
Both me and Patrick said we did and your old and forget
And he called out he he attributed
The
What we classified or attribute to Philip or more he attributed to Donald Rumsfeld because Rumsfeld has a similar quote and
That actually bugged me so much. I went and looked up the dates
Amour came out with with with his orders of ignorance and ACM in
2000 and
Rumsfeld came up with his the unknown known speech
At a press conference in February 2002 so Amour wins boom, isn't it armor?
I don't know. I thought he has a you in it. So I'm more Philip are more. Yes
Yeah, five four five orders of ignorance win Rumsfeld a copycat
both of them
So that
For those who care go look up Rumsfeld and Wikipedia
But let me just recap just but it's actually older way older than both of these guys account
What's attributed is to a poem called heaven and earth or something along those so let me
Let me just interject go and because that's what we do on a be testing
So for those of the three that just tuning in for the first time and are going
WTF are they talking about?
The five orders of ignorance Philip armor and ACM paper talked about the five orders as a
Knowledge acquisition framework and starts off with you know what you know, I know how to speak English
despite the
the thoughts of many a be testing listeners I
Know I I know I don't know how to speak Chinese
But I do know I do know of many ways that I could discover
How to learn that I could I could take classes online
I could you know, I could go to a class I could move to China and immerse myself there multiple ways
I know how to learn that I know it's I know that I don't know it and then I don't know what I don't know and
I have no there I cannot by definition give you an example of that
But that's how we learn and discover and then the next level up is really important
It's I don't have a suitable means to discover what I don't know
I don't know meaning that could be community that could be the internet
But you have to have some methods for discovering those things that you don't know
You don't know and when knowledge acquisition works is that you you have those means to discover what you don't know
You don't know by by learning that it becomes something
You know you don't know and you can choose to pick out something you know by studying or reading or learning about it
So that's how knowledge is acquired and the fifth order of course is that you don't know the five orders of ignorance
Because you'd say that so you don't even understand how knowledge acquisition works
And interlude over that's actually the the best interpretation of the fifth order that I've ever heard
I
Love I Philip armor was here right now
I would hug him because I but the fifth order always bugged me
You could see it is very tongue-in-cheek. Yeah, I just sort of
Hey, and the fifth thought the one way to interpret is and you don't know how awesome this list is
It's really multi-layered. It's very tongue-in-cheek and can be kind of funny at first class, but it's really about
Under like I know how knowledge acquisition works
I get how all this works and so now I can learn and grow and have the growth mindset blah blah blah
So actually one of the things that given your interpretation of the fifth order
It very well connects to sort of the theme that Patrick had for his whole deck
He's basically calling out
Hey, there's a lot of testers that I'm aware of he doesn't call it out
He's very polite and diplomatic and funny
But when you break through that cross he's basically essentially calling out
That there's a lot of testers who are in the fifth order that they didn't get it. They don't get it. It's essentially
Whereas he he is making a statement of as soon as he
Started to think about things
Instead of just doing he realized how much knowledge he was lacking
Ma'am he even has a great slide where it says the the right the more you learn
Then the the wider the surface area of those things that you know, you don't know become
So the more you learn the more you know what you don't know
Yeah, I yes, I think I told this story before how when I first
I had been a tester for about five years. I was kind of I think I was in
In that world. I've been a tester for three four years, maybe maybe five
They're probably a little less than that and I decided you know what? I like this. I want to learn more about this
So I read a book about testing. I forget which one
I forget which one I read first and I read and I thought well, okay now I know everything about testing
This is awesome. So I got it figured out
But then I read another book and then I saw both parallel
I saw both parallels contradictions new ideas and I thought well
Okay, this is pretty good now. I know a lot about testing
This is I have other I so now I'm more educated and then I read a third book and it was after the third book
I realized I didn't know crap about testing
Because I just the the combination of the three sort of open the world to me said wow
This whole thing is it's a little bit of the iceberg below the water thing. It's this is but but bigger
It's as much bigger than I thought it was
Yeah, I know and it's interesting right because poor Patrick. Thanks for gonna talk about him
It's it's an inspired by Patrick, I'm sure he'll accept that
Now I have a similar story
Right. I think I'll
Leave out I know what was my first book and I'm gonna leave out both the book and the author
to protect the innocent because
I then later on when I first got my first management gig. I would always order this book
For any of my new hires and I would say okay in two weeks
I want you to have read this book and we're gonna have a one-on-one. Okay, and
They would read the book and they would come back much like how you expressed it
Awesome
Now I know everything about testing right and just for the record
This was not how we test software at Microsoft. So just he's not protecting me, right? No
Your book just just for the three your board your book
Even a glimmer in your eye. I just I just wanted to be clear. I was not aware with the AB testing timeline
So they would come back two weeks later and they go oh man that book was awesome
I know everything about testing. I'm wearing to go
and then I would say
great
now I
Want you to reread the book and in two weeks? I want you to come back to me and tell me
Every place where the book is wrong. So great. You're a test. You're you know everything about testing
Test this book and
It occurs to me base even based off of Patrick's theme, right?
one of the things and
They would come back and they go
This doesn't seem like it's right and this doesn't seem like it's right and this doesn't seem like it's right and I was
super
happy with the result
but it occurs to me now freaking 20 years later that a big possibility is because I
Accidentally created a process where my testers instead of just being
Formulae monkeys that go through what everyone's supposed to do
I started them off on the path of critical thinking. So yeah, I was gonna say instead of having them read this big thick book on
testing software twice, how about having read one thin book on
Critical thinking just cut just cut to the chase there bread
Because I think
Critical thinking for much of these guys are new kids out of school is to still too much of an aspect
I I believe you're right. I thought about this and I've
Yeah, I thought even in those two seconds and and you're right you can I think critical thinking is a difficult thing
It's you the books on the subject are helpful and interesting if you understand what critical thinking is
But as an introduction you need some sort of hands-on
In my experience a little bit of hands-on to
Get the concepts even then like even my exercise, right? It's still kind of theoretical
Yeah, right, but it's I don't know applied theoretical. All right, we're going somewhere with us. All right, it's okay
We're only 15 minutes in
The fact we got past the intro by now is a miracle. Hey, yeah, we're way ahead of our latest patterns
All
right now but
There was another slide on
on Patrick's deck
that I'm
Setting up as sort of the theme for the rest of our conversation today and
So again, the theme of the whole deck was ignorance and knowledge and he got to this one slide
Where he lists off
about five or six different questions I
Have
copied those questions
Here and then I've added them and I've reordered them
And the reason why I've done that is because as he was going through the slide
He was expressing things that we've talked about
numerous numerous times
Where language is important
having a common
Taxonomy with a team is important. Right we've talked about the curse of
overloaded terminology
But then he stated he didn't know what any of these things
were
which
Leads the which led it sort of his audience participants to view it as
These are sort of philosophical questions and some of those things I looked at him like
No, I don't I don't I don't agree I don't think these are entirely
Philosophical although several of the ones we have taken on the podcast philosophical approach
But I'm like, I think we can do better than that. I think we can add precision
I think we can can look at it from a scientific point of view
All right. So you're saying just make sure I understand where you're coming from because sorry again Patrick. I haven't viewed the video
but in the in the concept of
Learning what you don't know. You don't know he's looked he's looked at like some number of
Terms from the software and software testing world and said when I really think about it
Although I used I may even use these words or phrases. I don't know what they really mean
Soup the nuts great. Okay, so I
Think based on on what I've just done. I want to do two things number one. I'll ask you a question
And then I'd like to hear your opinion on can this only be approached from
Say a philosophical point of view or can we do better and if we can do better
What would be your best definition?
and then in here the
As if we if we what's the opposite of abstract specific if the more specific we can get I think the better
The answer is alright. Anyway, so I've reordered his his
Questions because I think there's a lot to me. I think there's a logical order
But the very first one I'm ready to be put on the spot. Yes
Thanks for the prep time Brent and then when you answer, I'll of course tell you if you're right or wrong and then
My own point of view Alan you ignorant. Yeah. All right. So the first question
What is quality quality is a term that people love to define?
Yes
There's philosophical answer Philip Crosby quality is free
Is it only feels it can it only be addressed philosophically?
That's the good thing. So quality. Let me do both sides quality can be addressed
Philosophically because quality can mean different things to different people, right?
so it's
Quality is
So my definition of quality and then I'm gonna get into how you can actually be a little bit more scientific about it
but it's
how well
the customer or user of a thing
Views it as useful helpful. I'll say useful and helpful
Yeah, the I'm trying to extract it away from just software talk about quality in general, right? And when I think about a quality motorcycle
It feels good. It makes me feel good to use it. It's easy for me to
Operate
I know
What it can do and can't do and I'm happy with that and I get joy out of using it
I could say the same thing about a table or a pencil or a piece of software
I it as you were talking you reminded me. I actually once wrote a blog on this
and I am vaguely recalling what I babbled about but
I do think quality is
for the most part sort of a
it
To address it in the abstract
You have to kind of address it in the philosophical level because I do think quality is individualized
Right. It's one of those things where no, there's it's it's highly personal. It's highly customized. It's it's based on the individual
Right, right. I can tell you some things. It's not and I believe these are in your book in your blog post
Its quality does not mean bug-free
No with you. I think it was in the same post you posed the question of
If you have two pieces of software one is has some note a lot of note bugs
But it's heavily used by
Thousands or hundreds of thousands of people and the other one is bug-free but used by ten people which one has higher quality
And even if you go back to my abstract definition of it's fun to use that
You know, I can get stuff done with it and it does what I want it to do
It's the one being used by more people it's a higher quality product in that definition
It yeah, so it's it's it seems a little counterintuitive you go, but but but but it has bugs
Well, no, that's so the thing is
Right. So we know how to determine which has higher quality
But that's not quite the same thing as what is quality, right?
and
I remember it was some of the things that I put in there it was
The context its ability to solve a problem in that context like there was another post where I talked about
Toilets oh great. Yeah where it's essentially
Does it solve the problem in the context in which
We're expecting to solve that problem
without the absence of
With the absence of unexpected consequences
Right. It's actually a chair
Was where I would go with like for example if I offered you a chair that didn't have a seat
You would generally view the quality of that as very low why?
Because you expect to be able to sit in the chair and it doesn't have a seat
Right. So it can't serve its basic purpose
but if they gave you a different chair and
Gave you a seat
but instead
Took the front right leg and cut off three inches off of it
Right, you can now sit on it and if you lean back, you're good
But if you lean forward you run the risk of falling on the floor, right? So there's
a
better chair wouldn't have the quality or that the characteristic of the
These chair crashes if you will then
Another one could be bells and whistles or comfort, right?
How delightful is the experience if I gave you?
sort of the
The old metal chair that grandma would offer you at Thanksgiving when you had to sit at the kids table or the nice
plush
rich Corinthian leather chair
Which one are you gonna prefer? Well the one you can easily fall asleep in right is is
the last one and then the the very
Very quickly reverse engineering the blog very last one is the context right a toilet is
In fact another version of a chair, but it's a special it's a specialized chair
But if I take that if I take a fully functional toilet
Right and I put it in the middle of a kitchen
Right the the quality of that toilet just immediately went down right so your quality is contextual. Yes, but
now if I take that that toilet kitchen combo and I move that whole thing to
a village in Africa
The quality just went up again
All right, so what you're saying is quality is largely philosophical it is okay
But it's largely philosophical, but we can decompose it into into smaller parts and am
well, I think what's important as
bringing back to the tester point of view is when you look at quality or evaluating quality trying to find out quality is
It's what it means for your
product and your target customer
Yes, so you need to it's so unique contextualize. It's not just bugs. It's not just
You know that no requirements or fitness for use or any of other things
now even right if I guess you go back to the Weinberg quote, which you've
Danced around but it's quality is value to some person it is and just thinking
Yeah, we can we can decompose that abstract statement into two other things
All right, are we gonna go this deep on all of them because we'll never make it
All right, do they get harder or easier? I think after we get through this one the rest become easier
Alright, so what is a test case? Oh, that's a good one because I was
There was a working group at Microsoft a decade ago trying to I come up with some
Terms like we should use these terms across the company and we couldn't decide
Test case was one of them and I think I even talked about test case in the in the power test software at Microsoft book and
I tried to come up with a meeting that
Made sense to me and to at least a large number of teams at Microsoft. So the test case is the
Oh should I call it the test check call it the check case the check case. Sorry
it's a
Specific and the reason I want to preface is it's a specific action and outcome
So it's it's it's it's a it's a thing you want to try and a result you want to verify now
Here's the question I have for you. So if I have to run I have a thing like I gotta pick an app slack post a message
One test case post a message make sure it post to the second user. There's a test case
I have to run that test case or that test case needs to be verified on the web client the desktop client iOS Android
Etc.
What are the are those all test cases, too?
Why not and my answer is no because it's one test case the test case doesn't change
the
The test case the test case doesn't change its post a message verify that it's posted
When that fans out, I like to call those test points
Yet another new definition because it's the same again. It's philosophical
This is the one where the time officially reject the terminology test point because you just define equivalence class
No, yes
The equivalence class you this test case across multiple different browser
That's an equivalent as a math major an equivalence class is I'm going to treat all these values the same
But you're not going to treat all those test cases the same because they because having it work on
Windows Phone
People may not care about but it has to work on iOS and then the web
so if
So the point is I don't it doesn't matter. I wrote that
Eight years ago. I don't even know if I care anymore
But you do care I can tell you care your eyes say you care
That's why
Your team has a way of understanding what is a different, you know
Run these you have identical app for your
iOS and your Android clients
Fairly identical though under the hood. They're completely different
You are not going to write two test cases in whatever your test case management system is for post a
Post a message and make sure it can be viewed on iOS and another one post a message make sure it can be viewed on
Android you're gonna you're gonna share that one
But as long as your team has a way
Maybe Brent won't as long as your team has a way of understanding what that means
I don't care if you call them elephants light switches
Caborgas or caboom glass doesn't matter. How about fuzzy bunny fuzzy bunnies? How many fuzzy buddies? Did you run today?
Alright
So that one's I think even there it's slightly philosophical, but I think it's more shared understanding
It's a I can get my team
I think to have a shared understanding what a test case is much easier than it get my team to have a shared
Understanding of what quality is?
Um, I'm gonna try to combine the two
So my answer to what rent defines a quality case
my answer to
To what is a test case a test case is any time?
inputs are
applied to a program
Outputs generated in a judgment call made
Okay. Now it's that judgment call made that winds it back to the definition of quality. So
What I would say it's the same test case
But you're changing the context going back to the prior conversation
You're changing the context in which that test case would run therefore the judgment call might be different
So the judgment call is the Oracle so you could say your your definition if I paraphrase
Input plus output plus Oracle. Yes, I could get behind that awesome
The why didn't we have this conversation eight years ago before I wrote that stupid book I
Like I like things that input output Oracle done
Right, but again the Oracle isn't a static thing
You know the or winds it back to the definition of quality and the Oracle is the hardest part of testing it is
And since you say it's the hardest part of testing now, please tell me what is testing
This is another this one's gonna be largely philosophical and and
Maybe philosophical is the wrong word if I were to ask ten people what testing was I'm gonna get at least 11 different answers
That's true for test harnesses for sure. Oh
Don't even go there that's a whole podcast. Yep
To me testing is investigating evaluating
In fact, I'm gonna actually leave it at those two. It's
no investigating evaluating
learning and
Sometimes perhaps
Judging but I'm gonna leave that one off for now. I'm gonna go with the three. I'm going to
I'm going to
Disagree. All right, but I because I actually I don't think it's actually sometimes judging. I think it's only judging
So if we define the test case as input output in the Oracle
right the input and output
The inputs in a
Testing
Entities control the output isn't what what but the Oracle is why?
We hire testers about what that leaves out. No, it's not just the Oracle because often the
You may have a defined list of inputs and out the inputs and outputs
Yep, what the Oracle does in addition to evaluating the input and output. It gives you new ideas for inputs and outputs
So that's where the learning is
We're very abstract here. But you see I'm coming from I want to try I try entering in, you know
I send a message. I'll stick on the slack theme I send a message of
100 character 100 characters and it's fine and it outputs good judgment says looks good
Then I think oh, but what would happen if I could I send a thousand character or a ten thousand character message those
Were those were inspired by the last result that I evaluated
Often testers talk about breaking things or discovering where things fail. So by looking at the output of
By looking at their original judgment call their original Oracle from that I as a tester may derive
Directly or indirectly new test ideas, which are new inputs that I want to give to the program
So learning I can even go as far as learning and judging
Because evaluating maybe evaluating is close to judging but I think learning is a critical part of that
I know I agree and I'm I'm I'm changing my definition
Changing my answer not entirely because I still firmly think that the the the judging part
Because so as I go through this I'm thinking through
Right things we've talked about in the past around. Hey, we can have customers do our testing for us, right?
My definition of a test case applies to customer
Usage patterns, right?
The only input output Oracle for sure for sure the the only challenge with having customers do it is
It's often really hard to figure out. What was the judgment made?
That's where the data in the telemetry and that stuff comes into place whereas hiring testers
You just go talk to Bob down the hall. Hey, what was the judgment call but testing I think is is
Identifying
This is still too abstract. I think that maybe we working together can clarify this identifying
those judgment
calls
the
The judgments that would put the product at risk
okay, right so there's there is certainly a a
Science a craft an art. I don't think it's a philosophy around
Right. It's essentially
And maybe I'm framed
By by my coursework. So part of my coursework is this topic
That's well known in business and this risk management
Right what in in a risk management you spend a lot of time identifying
What exactly are those things that were uncertain about and then risk is classified as?
Uncertainty
Where there is a chance of a negative outcome and I think?
Those words could be cleverly rephrased to define what is testing?
That's really what we're doing is we're trying to look for
negative
Outcomes or that's part of it. Most testers are looking for breaking bugs and things like that
So it's a negative outcome thing. Not a lot of testers. I know of are focused on
How do we make this delightful? They're more focused on how do we subtract pain?
You have things you want to say?
Probably I like the idea of subtracting pain. I
Forget what I was gonna say. Oh, okay
So
Where are we closing on? What is the definition? Oh, I so I don't know for closing on it, but your
idea of
Identifying what the risk is to the product or that or to the to say risk to the product that is
Unfortunately, maybe not for better or for worse
Sort of an advanced testing skill a lot of testers as you mentioned they can identify where the user pain is
But it takes experience to understand the difference between this is a bug
And we've talked just a few times go talked about this with some PMs on our team who?
Even though their experience is difficult for them to frame. This is a bug
Versus this is a bug that will
Automatically this is a risk to product. I'm wondering if so I agree with you from my history that that that you see
advanced testers
With that sort of knowledge you can but I'm wondering if it's because we're not
Explicit in their training up front on that. This is what they're doing
Right because I think a lot of us have gone through and we've made mistakes and through trial and error have after we've been here
20 years ago. Yeah, actually, that's what it is
And I'm like, you know, but to my knowledge very few people start
Their career in this space. Well, I think it's an experience thing
There are one of the CDT things I hear I don't have a CDT or not, but people in that community
say is
The role of testing is to provide information to the stakeholders and let them make the decisions
but I think
Often especially in my experience do you know experienced testers do make those decisions?
And that so I've never been happy with that definition the role of yeah provide information, right?
Because I do I'm not built that way. I don't believe that way. I believe we're not just info gathers
Yeah, that that deficient is I think to me assumes testers are passive
But low-level passive people right where I think successful testers depending on your definition of tester, which we can't quite get to
Requires much more
You know, there's something else is the say on this topic, but I have also now forgotten it
All right. Should we move on to a different definition that I can totally screw up
And be made fun of in the Twitter verse. So what is a tester then?
Someone who does that stuff?
It depends who you ask
honestly, I didn't the answer is that question is I have no idea because
Sometimes I call myself a tester. Sometimes I think I'm not really a tester anymore
Sometimes people call me a tester. Sometimes people say oh, you're not really a tester anymore
So what those things tell me is I have no idea what a tester is a tester is someone who does
Testing there's my tautology for the day. Let me let me let me
Give you a start of a definition and see how you how you might fill in the blanks
All right, a tester is someone
who brings
value to the business by
doing testing now see
That's that's
Tautological, right but it's about doing the activities we talked about it's about somebody brings value to the business by identifying
key risk key risks by right the someone who brings value to the business by
Evaluating and or by judging the product
I a tester is someone that's value to the business by it feels flat
It's right like if we take the the risk that we're brainstorming here
But if you if you take the risk definition that we talked about in the last one, right?
It occurred to me that you brought up my my blog posts around the debug free multi-user thing. Mm-hmm, right?
that sort of loose definition fits well in that
model as a test case
right because the
base on the usage pattern the
Even though there's the bug-free code
That's not being used
Right there. There's not only
Zero risk of a failure but because it's not being used there's zero risk of
value
So maybe actually testing isn't really just purely risk
but it's
In econ right there's the risk to return function
Right. So the the risk is very low in the bug-free code example, but there's no return
So a tester is someone who uses inputs outputs and their judgment in
order to make
decisions around
the value of the product to the customer I
Think a tester. I think that's close. I think a tester is someone
Who is keenly focused on the risk to return?
Function and they bring they bring value to their business
by
Removing a
lowering risk on the high value
Quality propositions. Yeah, and that answer because as the answer becomes more abstract it also tends to fit more
but
Right, but I've also added right. It's not quite as abstract as they do testing it it well
True true and the thing I like about it in terms of not the activity a
Tester is someone who achieves an outcome. No, what is the outcome? Yeah, I like that
I like where you're going with that because
testing is more than
input output judgment
Those are very focused granular tasks
That is a test case
So a tester has to perform more than test cases. I hope all the three realize that
One of the key things testers do selection as an example
What test what test do I run but looking at the product as a whole it's there are testers
I know who their job is to run a test case
Yeah input output judgment
Repeat 200 times done. I'm a tester
Yes, but that is nowhere near enough
You need to look at I could I could design a hundred test cases for any product right now
That would I could run them and they pass and the product would still be crap, right? Because it's about it needs to be about
Experience a lot of things that aren't
Well, they could be part of test cases but looking at everything as a whole it's the systems thinking part of testing and I would even
say further because
What I found with with tests. So now we're talking about test case selection, right? What are the test cases that are going to?
Bring to the that we're going to execute where the judgment would maximize the the value
to risk function, right you running 2,000 test cases that
Essentially add
Those 2,000 test cases add in essence a 2% addition to your code coverage numbers
right, I don't know that that the the test that you selected added a
right value to risk
right
Does that make sense? You're staring at me like you're just waiting for me to no
No, my phone started bringing in the background. I don't think the microphones will pick it up. It'll stop. Okay. What's next?
What is?
Integration testing it's testing integration next
Is that really what you're gonna do no, I'm gonna say it's there's that it's actually a Twitter conversation on this maybe a month ago
To me
This is another one where as long as your team has a definition
You may be okay. This is making sure all the pieces fit together
One definition I used often for integration tests was those are the tests you write to make sure other people don't break you
when you're looking at things so
but
That's an arguable definition. But at a high level it's
Tests that make sure pieces fit together if you are working on
The I'm working on the message
The the chat box I own that component in slack and you own the framework that works that works in
We can both make changes that could break each other the framework being like the whole like say you own the web page
It buy on the how the controls work together and I own the chat box. Yeah, we can both
Write tests that make it write code that make each other look bad
So what we do is we write integration tests that make sure that
I may have some tests for the framework that make sure I understand to my assumptions about how that web framework works are understood so
I can run those all the time and make sure that any changes you make aren't gonna break me and vice versa
Okay, to me those those that's my sort of standard definition of integration testing
But I do realize there it's a it can mean anything beyond your low-level functional testing
I'm gonna reject that and I think you can do better
So
Now what I'm gonna say because you did a lot of I think you got really close to something awesome
Oji, thanks Brent
Remember what we what we agreed on the definition of a test case
input output oracle
Now take that concept and with that concept firmly in hand. Tell me what integration testing this you tell me Brent
No, I don't have any head. I could do it, but I want you to do it
So integration testing you said it's it's the tests that you're right
So the test which means the test cases you write to make sure other people don't break you
Right. It's essentially
Input output, but now what is the Oracle in that situation Oracle is did you break me that the Oracle is essentially
does your
component
still return the expected results that my
Opponent is counting on. Mm-hmm. That's integration testing. I think it in a nutshell. It's the act of applying
I thought I thought I said
Now you said the tests to make sure that people don't break you
Did you you didn't tell me what I did the integration test is I said why we build them
whatever
What about my failing my interview so I get hired
No, all right. No, that's great. You didn't you did not fail you the interview
you
You made it very clear that you know what you're talking about
But perhaps we'll need to put you in some communication training. Whatever
What is perf testing testing performance? Of course. All right, then
It's another overloaded term I think perf and load and stress all get put into one big bucket
But yep, I'm going to given your leading questions before
these are the inputs and outputs that let me know that my
product is performing and I'll try to all
Elaborate to get rid of the technology as expected for example, so I I
distinctly separate
Performance from load and stress testing. So performance is I want to know how long
actions take in my
Application
over a variety of scenarios
So I want to know how long and we need markers or clementry for that or in the old days even a stopwatch
I want to know
Yeah, man do I do I do not miss those days? Oh my god
So look at the what are the kit I would identify
This is I'm talking about what I do and maybe from then I'll get it get a definition. I want to identify
What are the key?
Actions my product takes and I want to know how long each of those takes and I'm going to
run various test cases in different contexts very various inputs and outputs and my judgment is
Well, the output is the time my judgment is is that time sufficient?
Towards what I think my customers will like and they're all kind of awesome answer. I
Can't tell if he sarcastic or no. No
Because I was the no the thing I think is interesting
Right. Yeah, the one thing that I see with a lot of performance testing is they start off exactly what your you said
Which is hey, is it performing as expected?
But then it winds it back to well, what should we expect and and
One one of our colleagues Steve Rowe wrote
Blog I think a year ago
Where he talks about?
Test has lost its way. Did you read that blog? I
Did not where he talks about what what has happened is
Test hasn't has gotten had gotten trained into
Expected being whatever is in the PM spec
not necessarily
Sort of the the customer angle that you just took
Performance testing another cool follow-up question
Which you might have already destroyed
is
Faster always better. No, why not?
It only has to be fast enough for the customer if I have
I'm gonna go back to my canonical slack example
if the time I press enter to the time that post appears to you is
200 milliseconds that seems almost instant to you and certainly is good enough
Do I want to spend a lot of time optimizing that go, you know what I can get this down to a hundred milliseconds
the user perception of that improvement is
almost none, especially when it's where when we're
Half a world apart and those numbers are made up mate. It probably takes longer. But again, you wouldn't notice. I actually did did
Some study and that's I'm forgetting the numbers but there's two numbers that I do remember. There's four things that I did
So
humans visually if it's they cannot perceive visually anything under
100 milliseconds
So we should make everything 100 milliseconds if everything was on 100 milliseconds it would as far as we're concerned
There are studies on this to show what the right numbers there for but again if you're dealing with distributed app
It can be longer but you can you it's really easy to over index on
increasing performance in the wrong areas and the the other one that I remember was
400 milliseconds
They can only perceive it if they are
Looking for it. So if you're if you're not if you click it and you're not paying attention to it anything under 400 second is is
Considered instantaneous. Mm-hmm
But if they're actually paying attention to it, they're singularly focused on it
Then they will detect it and there's another set of criteria around sort of audible clues
But I forget all these yeah, and there it's really easy to like I mentioned before it's really easy to over
Index on speeding things up that don't need to be sped up
and it's
you really want to focus on the
Sort of what are the top scenarios that not only can you over opt over index?
I'm trying to optimize something that's already good enough
But you may try and optimize a scenario that as far as customers are concerned doesn't need to be fast
Or it's not used very often you want to
This is beyond the definition
But for you know, the answer to perf testing is not make everything fast. It's make the parts that matter fast
So you need to do investigation and if and understand what?
What are the parts that need to be fast and how fast do they need to be and that is a huge part of actually
The performance testing performance testing is actually very much
You know input output judgment but that judgment that figuring that building that Oracle
Yeah, is it once again as I said earlier Oracle's the hard part oracles the very hard part requires
investigation and learning and an analysis to figure out and the Oracle not only is the hard part, but I think it's actually the
Only thing that's valuable. Mm-hmm. The other part is easy start and
subtract and then when it whining like as I've mentioned several times
The what's drawn me to data science is I have a huge passion around quality
And it now occurs to me as we're talking right now that it's actually a big part of what I'm doing in data science is
building better
accurate oracles and
Data science versus testing in this case right data science. I'm trained to measure that accuracy. How well does it
Does what I built fit the reality? Right?
All right
Were there more things on your list? No, we're good. So I think we're out of time, too
We are hey, thank you everyone, especially Patrick and per se for being part of our actually
I'm gonna check Twitter real fast to see if appears he replied
Nope. Nope, but
Didn't the the one of the a B testing live or live on a B testing hashtag did not catch on so
Possibly maybe coming to a slack near you
perhaps
Might be a new chat room with three people
All right, everybody. I am
Listening to Brent's phone. I am late. All right. See you next time. Bye